                   **Internet Control Message Protocol(ICMP)** 
                   
                   
Since, IP does not have a inbuilt mechanism for sending error and control
messages. It depends on Internet Control Message Protocol(ICMP) to provide an
error control. It is used for reporting errors and management queries.
Let’s begin this adventure by opening the Windows Command Prompt application
(which can be found in your Accessories folder).
• Now, Start up the Wireshark packet sniffer, and begin Wireshark packet capture.
• The ping command is in c:\windows\system64, so type either “ping –n 10
hostname” or “c:\windows\system64\ping –n 10 hostname” in the MS-DOS
command line (without quotation marks), where hostname is a host on another
continent. The argument“-n 10” indicates that 10 ping messages should be sent.
Then run the Ping program by typing return.
• When the Ping program terminates, stop the packet capture in Wireshark.
the source ping program is in Massachusetts and the destination Ping program is in
Hong Kong. From this window we see that the source ping
program sent 10 query packets and received 10 responses. Note also that for each
response, the source calculates the round-trip time (RTT), which for the 10 packets
is on average 173msec.

Q.1 What is the IP address of your host? What is the IP address of the destination host.?
ANS:--- The IP address of my host is 192.168.43.191 , And The IP address of the
destination host is 143.89.12.134


Q.2 Why is it that an ICMP packet does not have source and destination port
numbers?
ANS:---The ICMP packet does not have source and destination port numbers because it
was designed to communicate network-layer information between hosts and routers, not
between application layer processes.


Q.3 Examine one of the ping request packets sent by your host. What are the ICMP
type and code numbers? What other fields does this ICMP packet have? How
many bytes are the checksum, sequence number and identifier fields?
ANS:--- The ICMP type is 8 (as shown in figure) , and the code number is 0. The ICMP
packet also has checksum, identifier, sequence number, and data fields. The checksum,
sequence number and identifier fields are two bytes each.

Q.4 Examine the corresponding ping reply packet. What are the ICMP type and code
numbers? What other fields does this ICMP packet have? How many bytes are the
checksum, sequence number and identifier fields?
ANS:--- The ICMP type is 0, and the code number is 0. The ICMP packet also has checksum,
identifier, sequence number, and data fields. In my case ,The checksum, sequence number
and identifier fields are one bytes each.

(ICMP and Traceroute)
In my case, we have to implemented Traceroute in Windows.
the source sends a series of ICMP packets to the target destination. For both
operating systems, the program sends the first packet with TTL=1, the second
packet with TTL=2, and so on. Recall that a router will decrement a packet’s TTL
value as the packet passes through the router. When a packet arrives at a router
with TTL=1, the router sends an ICMP error packet back to the source.
In the following, we’ll use the native Windows tracert program by using ping
plotter.
Doing the following things:-
• Let’s begin by opening the Windows Command Prompt application (which can be
found in your Accessories folder).
• Start up the Wireshark packet sniffer, and begin Wireshark packet capture.
• The tracert command is in c:\windows\system64, so type either “tracert
hostname” or “c:\windows\system64\tracert hostname” in the MS-DOS command
line (without quotation marks), where hostname is a host on another
continent.(Note that on a Windows machine, the command is “tracert” and not
“traceroute”.)
And Then run the Traceroute program by typing return.

Q.5 What is the IP address of your host? What is the IP address of the target
destination host?
ANS:--- The IP address of my host is 192.168.43.191 , And The IP address of the
destination host is 128.93.162.83( as shown in below figure ).


Q.6 If ICMP sent UDP packets instead (as in Unix/Linux), would the IP protocol
number still be 01 for the probe packets? If not, what would it be?
ANS:--- No , If ICMP sent UDP packets instead, the IP protocol number should be 0x11


Q.7 Examine the ICMP echo packet in your screenshot. Is this different from the
ICMP ping query packets in the first half of this lab? If yes, how so?
ANS:--- The ICMP echo packet has the same fields as the ping query packets.(As shown in
below figure)


Q.8 Examine the ICMP error packet in your screenshot. It has more fields than the
ICMP echo packet. What is included in those fields?
ANS:--- The ICMP error packet is not the same as the ping query packets. It contains both
the IP header and the first 8 bytes of the original ICMP packet .



Q.9 Examine the last three ICMP packets received by the source host. How are these
packets different from the ICMP error packets? Why are they different?
ANS:--- The last three ICMP packets are message type 0 (echo reply) rather than 11 (TTL
expired). They are different because the datagrams have made it all the way to the
destination host before the TTL expired.


Q.10 Within the tracert measurements, is there a link whose delay is significantly
longer than others? Refer to the screenshot in Figure 4, is there a link whose
delay is significantly longer than others? On the basis of the router names, can
you guess the location of the two routers on the end of this link?
ANS:--- There is a link between the steps 11 and 12 that has a significantly
longer delay. This is a transatlantic link from New York to Aubervilliers, France., the link is
from New York to Pastourelle, France.



Thanks for watching my notes...!
