Q.1 Select the first ICMP Echo Request message sent by your computer, and expand
the Internet Protocol part of the packet in the packet details window.
What is the IP address of your computer..?
ANS:---> The IP address of my computer is 192.168.43.191


Q.2 Within the IP packet header, what is the value in the upper layer protocol field?
ANS:---> The value in the upper layer protocol field is ICMP 1 or (0x01)


Q.3 How many bytes are in the IP header? How many bytes are in the payload of the
IP datagram? Explain how you determined the number of payload bytes.
ANS:--- Here as shown in figure , 20 bytes in the IP header, and 96 bytes total length, this
gives 76 bytes in the payload of the IP datagram.


Q.4 Has this IP datagram been fragmented? Explain how you determined whether
or not the datagram has been fragmented.
ANS:--- The more fragments bit = 0, so the data is not fragmented.


Q.5 Which fields in the IP datagram always change from one datagram to the next
within this series of ICMP messages sent by your computer?
ANS:--- In the Identification, Time to live and Header checksum always change.


Q.6 Which fields stay constant? Which of the fields must stay constant? Which fields
must change? Why?
ANS:--- The fields that stay constant across the IP datagrams are:
• Version (since we are using IPv4 for all packets)
• header length (since these are ICMP packets)
• source IP (since we are sending from the same source)
• destination IP (since we are sending to the same dest)
• Upper Layer Protocol (since these are ICMP packets)
The fields that must stay constant are:
• Version (since we are using IPv4 for all packets)
• header length (since these are ICMP packets)
• source IP (since we are sending from the same source)
• destination IP (since we are sending to the same dest)
• Upper Layer Protocol (since these are ICMP packets)
The fields that must change are:
• Identification(IP packets must have different ids)
• Time to live (traceroute increments each subsequent packet)
• Header checksum (since header changes, so must checksum)

Q.7 Describe the pattern you see in the values in the Identification field of the IP
datagram..?
ANS:--- The pattern is that the IP header Identification fields increment with each ICMP
Echo (ping) request.


Q.8 What is the value in the Identification field and the TTL field?
ANS:--- Value of Identification = 37504
Value of TTL (Time to live)=242


Q.9 Do these values remain unchanged for all of the ICMP TTL-exceeded replies
sent to your computer by the nearest (first hop) router? Why?
ANS:--- identification field changes for all the ICMP TTL-exceeded replies because
the identification field is a unique value. When two or more IP datagrams have the
same identification value, then it means that these IP datagrams are fragments of a
single large IP datagram. The TTL field remains unchanged because the TTL for the
first hop router is always the same.


-:Fragmentation :-
Q.10 Find the first ICMP Echo Request message that was sent by your computer
after you changed the Packet Size in pingplotter to be 2000. Has that message been
fragmented across more than one IP datagram?
ANS:--- Yes, this packet has been fragmented across more than one IP datagram.


Q.11 Print out the first fragment of the fragmented IP datagram. What information
in the IP header indicates that the datagram been fragmented? What information in
the IP header indicates whether this is the first fragment versus a latter fragment?
How long is this IP datagram?
ANS:--- The Flags bit for more fragments is set, indicating that the datagram has
been fragmented. Since the fragment offset is 0, we know that this is the first
fragment. This first datagram has a total length of 1500, including the header.

Q.12 Print out the second fragment of the fragmented IP datagram. What
information in the IP header indicates that this is not the first datagram fragment?
Are the more fragments? How can you tell?
ANS:--- We can tell that this is not the first fragment, since the fragment offset is 1480. It is
the last fragment, since the more fragments flag is not set.


Q.13 What fields change in the IP header between the first and second fragment..?
ANS:--- The IP header fields that changed between the fragments are: total length, flags,
fragment offset, and checksum.

